Review of apps documentation (#795)
mattermost/mattermost-developer-documentation: site/content/integrate/apps/_index.md

- Be hosted externally (HTTP) and on Mattermost Cloud (AWS Lambda)*.
- Work on both Mobile and Desktop apps so developers can focus on the functionality of their apps.
- Be deployed using our Mattermost serverless hosting infrastructure keeping data secure and supporting scalability.

Apps are available as a Developers Preview and we're looking for your feedback! Share constructive feedback in the [Mattermost Apps channel](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/mattermost-apps) on our Mattermost community instance.

* Apps will soon be available for self-managed deployments as well as customers' own AWS environments.

Read the [quick start guide]({{< ref  "quick-start-go" >}}) to learn how to write your first app.

## Mattermost serverless app hosting

Mattermost serverless hosting allows for easy app installation from the App Marketplace by a System Admin and uses AWS Lambda serverless technology instead of relying on a physical server. Developers who create apps using a serverless development approach can easily deploy apps securely, efficiently, and at scale in the Mattermost Cloud.

## Developing serverless apps

> 

Author: This could do with some content: Would this be a place for a link to the best practices guide (not yet written) or maybe something about the apps framework and how it's related to development? @aaronrothschild?

Reviewer: Agreed - @iomodo do you have any thoughts on what should go here?  

perhaps a blurb like:
Serverless technology allows for a "Fucntion" to lay dormant until it is needed - for example processing an incoming message from an external system (ie: a P1 incident in your tracking system) and sending a message to your Incident Response Channel in Mattermost.  This allows for reduced costs and less maintenance of persistent servers needed to host other applications.

Reviewer 2: 3/5 that hosting is not such an important topic that we need to talk about it upfront. It's a topic for developers, not for admins. All of the "hosting" docs should go into a separate page later. No need write about it now.

Author: I am 5/5 on adding this because these are the only docs linked in the hackathon spreadsheet and I think context is important. 

That said, I can cut this down to bullet lists to make it easier to scan?

Reviewer 2: Is a link to the quick start guide enough?

Author: I moved some content around - LMK what you think.

Reviewer 2: After the 16th of May there is no need for a local dev environment any longer. 2/5 that we shouldn't link to https://developers.mattermost.com/contribute/server/developer-setup/ right now

### Development environment

> Visit the [Developer Setup Guide](https://developers.mattermost.com/contribute/server/developer-setup/) for information about setting up your development environment.

Author: Is this the correct link? We also have the App Developer Guide within this doc set, but it doesn't include any information about environment or the very basic "this is how you start". This may, however, be covered in Ben's quickstart guide.

Reviewer: @hanzei do you have any documents for a "Quickstart" to get a developer's environment started?  (ie: Install Proxy plugin, install appsctl?)

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-developer-documentation/pull/797 adds a quickstart guide. We should just link to it.

Author: Agreed, I am 5/5 on that.

### App lifecycle

- [App Lifecycle]({{< ref "lifecycle" >}})

> - godoc: [appsctl](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/mattermost/mattermost-plugin-apps/cmd/appsctl) - CLI tool used to provision Mattermost Apps in development and production.

Reviewer: Do we have to use Go doc on external site? Can we render this dynamic content within Sphinx?  @justinegeffen 

(I think it's ugly and drives the user around to different places)

Author: Good question. I copied this from the existing content as-is. This repo uses Hugo which I'm sure can handle dynamic content and @hanzei might know how to do that. 

What do you want it to look like in this context? The list of source files but on this page as opposed to a redirect?

Reviewer 2: We did include the godoc sources into hugo for the plugin API and it didn't work out so great. Getting the formatting right is just hard. 3/5 that a godoc link is fine for now. Devs will need to go there anyway if they are writing go code.

---
title: "Apps (Developers Preview)"
heading: "Introduction"
description: "Apps are lightweight interactive add-ons to Mattermost."
section: "integrate"
weight: 90
---

> Apps are lightweight, interactive add-ons to Mattermost which use serverless hosting to run without any dedicated infrastructure. Apps can:

Reviewer 2: That is not correct. Apps are not bound to serverless hosting. Any hosting mechanism for hosting an HTTP server works.

Author: ```suggestion
Apps are lightweight, interactive add-ons to Mattermost which can use any HTTP-compatible hosting mechanism to run without dedicated infrastructure. Apps can:
```

- Display interactive, dynamic Modal forms and Message Actions.

> - Be written in several different languages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Be written in any language.
```

- Attach themselves to locations in the Mattermost user interface (e.g. channel bar buttons, post menu, channel menu, commands), and can add their custom `/` commands with full Autocomplete.
- Receive webhooks from Mattermost, and third-parties, and use the Mattermost REST APIs to post messages, etc.

> - Be hosted externally (HTTP) and on Mattermost Cloud (AWS Lambda)*.

Reviewer 2: That is a bit misleading. As pointed out they can be hosted anywhere. Can we drop this point?

- Display interactive, dynamic Modal forms and Message Actions.
- Be written in several different languages.
- Attach themselves to locations in the Mattermost user interface (e.g. channel bar buttons, post menu, channel menu, commands), and can add their custom `/` commands with full Autocomplete.
- Receive webhooks from Mattermost, and third-parties, and use the Mattermost REST APIs to post messages, etc.
- Be hosted externally (HTTP) and on Mattermost Cloud (AWS Lambda)*.
- Work on both Mobile and Desktop apps so developers can focus on the functionality of their apps.
- Be deployed using our Mattermost serverless hosting infrastructure keeping data secure and supporting scalability.

Apps are available as a Developers Preview and we're looking for your feedback! Share constructive feedback in the [Mattermost Apps channel](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/mattermost-apps) on our Mattermost community instance.

* Apps will soon be available for self-managed deployments as well as customers' own AWS environments.

Read the [quick start guide]({{< ref  "quick-start-go" >}}) to learn how to write your first app.

## Mattermost serverless app hosting

> Mattermost serverless hosting allows for easy app installation from the App Marketplace by a System Admin and uses AWS Lambda serverless technology instead of relying on a physical server. Developers who create apps using a serverless development approach can easily deploy apps securely, efficiently, and at scale in the Mattermost Cloud.

Reviewer 2: 3/5 that hosting is not such an important topic that we need to talk about it upfront. It's a topic for developers, not for admins.

Author: I see this as a combination admin/dev guide. Both parties need context but the content can be trimmed down a lot.

Author: But re-reading it, you're correct and I have removed the content. :)
